# Script Readme
(Last updated: 2021-04-06)

I'm not sure what my final pipeline will look like yet. As of now, the file [simulator.lisp](simulator.lisp) contains all lisp funtions for simulating the Ancestral Recombination Graph on a 3-taxa species tree. I am running slime in emacs, with SBCL.

Short descriptions of each script is given. Additional, more complete documentation for each script can be found as commentary in the files themselves

# Scripts
* [simulate.sh](simulate.sh) contains the script for starting up a simulation
  under a pre-specified parameter regime. It is intended to be run from the
  command line by the user (i.e. you). There are three simulation types to
  choose from.

* [simulator.lisp](simulator.lisp) contains all general functions for simulating
  the multispecies coalescent with recombination on a species triplet with
  topology ((AB)C). It also contains the functions necessary for inference,
  including:
     1. R* consensus method using weighted Jukes-Cantor distances;
     2. R* consensus method using mutations generated by a Jukes-Cantor process;
     3. A summary method which infers the maximum likelihood tree.

* [execute-ml-sequence.lisp](execute-ml-consensus.lisp) simulates the evolution of a length of DNA across three sister species A, B, and C whos species tree has topology ((AB)C). For each 

* [execute-jc-sequence.lisp](execute-jc-sequence.lisp) not written yet, but should be almost copy-paste of the other execute files.

* [execute-jc-expected.lisp](execute-jc-expected.lisp) RENAME FROM execute-consensus-jc.lisp ann EDIT so that it is similar to execute ml-sequence

# To do: 
* Finish implementing mutations. To do this you should think clearly about what you want your pipeline to look like. What outputs should be saved as files?
* Write a program to explore the parameter space for consistency of R*. Still waiting on some computer parts to arrive before I implements this.
* Implement data analysis in some language other than lisp (i.e. python, julia, or R). There are two reasons for this: (1) it's prettier, since math equations are kind of ugly in lisp; (2) I need to make plots. Ultimately I want a pretty, graphical depiction of the anomolous zone.
* Figure out what format the output sequences should be for, say, *BEAST.
* Write lisp programs so that they can be piped (i.e. with standard input and standard output). I want to be able to run my pipeline entirely from the terminal, without opening a lisp REPL.
* Implement the maximum likelihood method from Yang.
